This research focuses on employing Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT) to develop a system that has the ability to automate anormal detection in industrial oven machines, especially leaking steam valves in Module Oven System 700H (MOS 700H) in standby mode. This study aims to improve operation efficiency and keep safety through proactive maintenance and reduce downtime of machines. To achieve this goal, data will be collected from sensors IoT that include temperate, humidity and air pressure to train an AI model called Stacking Ensemble. This model combines various machine learning algorithms to detect abnormality, especially in data conditions where abnormality is scarce in industrial environments. The experimental result based on a dataset with a period from 15 to 180 days demonstrates that the proposed model using Stacking Ensemble gives the highest result compared with other AI models, significantly in long-term data. This confirms the potential of combining AI and IoT in monitoring industrial ovens, thereby contributing to optimising performance and maintaining the stability of operation.
</br>
Research contributions:</br>
•	This study proposes a novel Stacking Ensemble method for detecting steam valve leaks in MOS 700H using IoT data and AI models.</br>
•	This is one of the first studies to explore the potential of applying a Stacking Ensemble approach to detect anomalies in industrial ovens, especially in the food manufacturing sector.</br>
•	Experimental results show that the proposed Stacking Ensemble model achieves the highest performance in detecting steam valve leaks, with a precision of 97% and recall 96%.
